README.md, before:

# markvis

This project comes from the inspiration of [markwhen](https://markwhen.com/) but with the [visjs-timeline](https://visjs.org/) library as a base for rendering the timeline.

## User Interface
The application is a single web-page, with all the code included in it.
It looks like this by default
![Main interface empty](/doc/main_interface_empty.png)

### Edition drawer
The button <kbd>Edit timeline</kbd> opens a drawer, on the left side, with a textarea to write the markdown that describes the elements to render on the timeline.
![Main interface edit timeline](/doc/main_interface_edit.png)

You can adjust the size of the drawer by holding the <kbd>CTRL</kbd> key and increase/decrase the width with the right or left arrows keys.

### Configuration drawer
The button <kbd>Configuration</kbd> opens another drawer, on the right side, to configure the timeline display.
![Main interface configuration](/doc/main_interface_config.png)

### Plugins drawer
The button <kbd>Plugins</kbd> opens a bottom drawer and contain a tab list where each tab is a plugin.
See the plugins section to have more details on each plugin.

## Syntax
Here are the details for the markdown syntax.
Be careful that the syntax is still a work in progress and can be changed at anytime.

### Groups
A new group, is represented by a new separated line in the timeline. The syntax to create a new group is the following

```
# group title
// you can add a group with a specific id you provide
# group title ; group_id_you_choose
```

Groups can be nested with several `#` characters

```
## group title (2nd level)

### group title (3rd level)
```

### Items

Point and box type items are created like the following
```
// point item
 . item title ; <date> [| color]

// box item
 ! item title ; <date> [| color]
```

#### Icons
Items can also be customize with an icon, with the two following syntax
```
 [icon] item title ; <date> [|color]
 {icon} item title; <date> [|color]
```

There are two different icons providers: Google material icons and Bootstrap icons.\
The _icon_ term can be found on each of the icons provider, when you click on a icon.

##### Google Material icons
For google material icons, use the brackets form `[icon]` with one of the name available [here](https://fonts.google.com/icons?icon.set=Material+Icons)

The icon name is written in the drawer, after clicking on the desired icon
(image)

##### Bootstrap icons
For Bootstrap icons, use the curly braces form with one of the name available [here](https://icons.getbootstrap.com/)

The icon name is written below the icon on the website.

```
// box item
 ! item title ; <date> [| color]
```

Range and background type items are created like the following
```
// range item
 ] item title ; <start date> ; <end date> [| color]
```

```
// background item
 = item title ; <start date> ; <end date> [| color]
```

### Date format
The date format used follows the [Luxon.js](https://moment.github.io/luxon/#/parsing) library and use the  ISO 8601 format.

Use the link above to see all the available forms of syntax, but in short, you can use the two following forms:
```
// standard format with year/month/day
2025-01-01

// or the format with year/week, with optional day of the week after an optional hyphen
2025W01-2

//after these two form, an optional time can be used after a 'T' character
2025-01-01T08:30
2025W01-2T08:30
```

### subgroups

Within a group, items can be grouped together with a _subgroup_.\
Subgroups syntax use the rounded brackets like in the following example
```
# group
 (subgroup1_name
   . item in group 1 ; <date>
   ] range item in group 1 ; <start date> ; <end date>
 )
 (subgroup2_name
  . item in group 2 ; <date>
  . item in group 2 ; <date>
 )
```
Avoid mixing items in subgroup and not in subgroup within a group as it leads to display bugs.

## plugins

### Json plugin

The json plugin allows to create items in batch from a json content.

![json plugin image](/doc/plugin_json.png)

You need to fill the different fields in order to have the items generated:
 * The id of the group where to generate the items. See the groups part of the documentation to see how to specify an id for a group.
 * The key in the json content which contains the title of the items
 * The key in the json date which contains the date of the items

If a key doesn't contains exactly the date format needed, you can extract it with regexp,
 - either for the complete date or date/time by filling the _Date/time regexp_ field only
 - or by filling the _date/time regexp_ field for the date, **and** the _time specific regexp_ for the time specifically.
 
Note that if you fill both of field, a "T" character is inserted between the date and the time part of the string which represents the date and time to suits the ISO 8601 format. An exemple is provided below:

![json plugin regexp example](/doc/plugin_json_regexp.png)

A link to the website regex101 is also available to test the regular expressions.

## Version history

<details>
<summary>History</summary>
 
v0.1 first usable version\
v0.2 add support for icons and colors\
v0.3 add support for subgroups\
v0.4 add json plugin\
v0.5 add bootstrap icons provider
v0.6 fixes and enhancements
</details>

Commit message:

v0.8 add possibility to set a color for an entire group
squashed of the following:
 * add missing documentation
 * add separator in timeline helpers
 * add in the Markvis class:
  - constants for characters selection
  - integrate timeline groups array and breadcrumb
  - integrate timeline items array
  - integrate currentSubgroupId
  - integrate the group value (order)
  - integrate function to add a group
  - add common function to add item
 * add configuration option to fit the display of all items
 * add todos
 * update exemple
 * cleaning code
 * documentation + bump version

README.md, after:

# markvis

This project comes from the inspiration of [markwhen](https://markwhen.com/) but with the [visjs-timeline](https://visjs.org/) library as a base for rendering the timeline.

## User Interface
The application is a single web-page, with all the code included in it.
It looks like this by default
![Main interface empty](/doc/main_interface_empty.png)

### Edition drawer
The button <kbd>Edit timeline</kbd> opens a drawer, on the left side, with a textarea to write the markdown that describes the elements to render on the timeline.
![Main interface edit timeline](/doc/main_interface_edit.png)

You can adjust the size of the drawer by holding the <kbd>CTRL</kbd> key and increase/decrase the width with the right or left arrows keys.

### Configuration drawer
The button <kbd>Configuration</kbd> opens another drawer, on the right side, to configure the timeline display.
![Main interface configuration](/doc/main_interface_config.png)

### Plugins drawer
The button <kbd>Plugins</kbd> opens a bottom drawer and contain a tab list where each tab is a plugin.
See the plugins section to have more details on each plugin.

## Syntax
Here are the details for the markdown syntax.
Be careful that the syntax is still a work in progress and can be changed at anytime.

### Groups
A new group, is represented by a new separated line in the timeline. The syntax to create a new group is the following

```
# group title [|<color>]
// you can add a group with a specific id you provide
# group title ; group_id_you_choose [|<color>]
```

You can provide a `<color>` name at the end of the line for a group so that all items in this group will get this color.

Groups can be nested with several `#` characters

```
## group title (2nd level)

### group title (3rd level)
```

### Items

Point and box type items are created like the following
```
// point item
 . item title ; <date> [| color]

// box item
 ! item title ; <date> [| color]
```

#### Icons
Items can also be customize with an icon, with the two following syntax
```
 [icon] item title ; <date> [|color]
 {icon} item title; <date> [|color]
```

There are two different icons providers: Google material icons and Bootstrap icons.\
The _icon_ term can be found on each of the icons provider, when you click on a icon.

##### Google Material icons
For google material icons, use the brackets form `[icon]` with one of the name available [here](https://fonts.google.com/icons?icon.set=Material+Icons)

The icon name is written in the drawer, after clicking on the desired icon
(image)

##### Bootstrap icons
For Bootstrap icons, use the curly braces form with one of the name available [here](https://icons.getbootstrap.com/)

The icon name is written below the icon on the website.

```
// box item
 ! item title ; <date> [| color]
```

Range and background type items are created like the following
```
// range item
 ] item title ; <start date> ; <end date> [| color]
```

```
// background item
 = item title ; <start date> ; <end date> [| color]
```

### Date format
The date format used follows the [Luxon.js](https://moment.github.io/luxon/#/parsing) library and use the  ISO 8601 format.

Use the link above to see all the available forms of syntax, but in short, you can use the two following forms:
```
// standard format with year/month/day
2025-01-01

// or the format with year/week, with optional day of the week after an optional hyphen
2025W01-2

//after these two form, an optional time can be used after a 'T' character
2025-01-01T08:30
2025W01-2T08:30
```

### subgroups

Within a group, items can be grouped together with a _subgroup_.\
Subgroups syntax use the rounded brackets like in the following example
```
# group
 (subgroup1_name
   . item in group 1 ; <date>
   ] range item in group 1 ; <start date> ; <end date>
 )
 (subgroup2_name
  . item in group 2 ; <date>
  . item in group 2 ; <date>
 )
```
Avoid mixing items in subgroup and not in subgroup within a group as it leads to display bugs.

## plugins

### Json plugin

The json plugin allows to create items in batch from a json content.

![json plugin image](/doc/plugin_json.png)

You need to fill the different fields in order to have the items generated:
 * The id of the group where to generate the items. See the groups part of the documentation to see how to specify an id for a group.
 * The key in the json content which contains the title of the items
 * The key in the json date which contains the date of the items

If a key doesn't contains exactly the date format needed, you can extract it with regexp,
 - either for the complete date or date/time by filling the _Date/time regexp_ field only
 - or by filling the _date/time regexp_ field for the date, **and** the _time specific regexp_ for the time specifically.
 
Note that if you fill both of field, a "T" character is inserted between the date and the time part of the string which represents the date and time to suits the ISO 8601 format. An exemple is provided below:

![json plugin regexp example](/doc/plugin_json_regexp.png)

A link to the website regex101 is also available to test the regular expressions.

## Version history

<details>
<summary>History</summary>
 
v0.1 first usable version\
v0.2 add support for icons and colors\
v0.3 add support for subgroups\
v0.4 add json plugin\
v0.5 add bootstrap icons provider
v0.6 fixes and enhancements
v0.7 add possibility to resize the content drawer
v0.8 add possibility to set a color for an entire group
</details>
